---
description: >-
  Developments and news about Goobi workflow
---

# April 2024

## General

{% hint style="warning" %}
The major changeover in the Maven architecture of Goobi workflow and the plugins was completed in April. Due to the large amount of rework, we recommend that you only use the May release.
{% endhint %}

## Core

### Maven structure

We implemented the Maven infrastructure change in April. Goobi workflow still looks the same, but a lot has changed under the bonnet. This is particularly interesting for developers and system administrators.

The new structure now makes it easier to refactor and maintain dependencies in a central location.

#### Developers

For developers, there is now no longer the goobi-workflow repository alone, but `workflow-base` and `goobi-workflow-core`. We recommend that developers delete all local repositories and check them out again from Github. The core and the plugins now define workflow-base as parent. The location of the artefacts in Nexus has also changed. They are no longer located under `de.intranda.goobi.workflow`, but under `io.goobi.workflow`.

#### System administrators

For system administrators, the naming of artefacts in the plugins has changed. The spelling of `.jar` plugin files has been consistently harmonised and standardised. Configuration files and the names of the plugins have not been renamed. Nevertheless, care should be taken in future updates to ensure that no old artefacts are left behind.

### Snippets

* A larger set of special plugins was finalised for a customer
* Work in the context of vocabularies and archive is progressing

## Version number

The current version number of Goobi workflow with this release is: `24.04.30`. Within plugin developments, the following dependency must be entered accordingly for Maven projects within the `pom.xml` file:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.goobi.workflow</groupId>
    <artifactId>workflow-core</artifactId>
    <version>24.04.30</version>
    <classifier>classes</classifier>
</dependency>
```